
--- PAGE 1 ---
2018 General Social Survey
Cycle 32:
Caregiving and Care Receiving
Public Use Microdata User Guide

--- PAGE 3 ---
1
Table of contents
1. Introduction ..................................................................................................................................................... 2
2. Objectives of the General Social Survey .......................................................................................................... 2
3. Content of the 2018 GSS on Caregiving and Care Receiving ........................................................................... 2
4. New content and changes to previously existing content .............................................................................. 7
5. Survey and sample design ............................................................................................................................... 8
6. Collection and response rate ......................................................................................................................... 11
7. Processing ...................................................................................................................................................... 12
8. Estimation ...................................................................................................................................................... 13
9. Release guidelines and data reliability .......................................................................................................... 19
10. Additional information ................................................................................................................................ 22
Appendix A - Tips for using GSS standard bootstrap weights .......................................................................... 23
Appendix B - Citizenship codes ......................................................................................................................... 26
Appendix C - Country of birth codes ................................................................................................................. 31
Appendix D - Religion codes ............................................................................................................................. 39
Appendix E - Language codes ........................................................................................................................... 48

--- PAGE 4 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
2
1. Introduction
This guide was prepared for users of the public use microdata file (PUMF) of the 2018 General Social
Survey (GSS) -- Caregiving and Care receiving (Cycle 32). This is the seventh time Statistics Canada
has collected data on the topic of care in one of its surveys. The previous surveys on this topic were
conducted in 1985 (Cycle 1), 1990 (Cycle 5), 1996 (Cycle 11), 2002 (Cycle 16) 2007 (Cycl e 21), and
2012 (Cycle 26). The objectives of the guide are to provide context and background information, to
familiarize users with the content of the survey, and to describe procedures and concepts related to
collection, estimation, processing and methodology.
The 2018 GSS on Caregiving and Care Receiving, conducted from April 3rd to December 28th 2018, is
a sample survey with cross -sectional design. The target population includes all non -institutionalized
persons 15 years of age and older, living in the 10 provinces of Canada. The survey uses a new frame,
created in 2013, that combines telephone numbers (landline and cellular) with Statistics Canada's
Address Register, and collects data both electronically and via telephone. Data are subject to both
sampling and non-sampling errors.
The information in the following sections should be used to ensure a clear understanding of the basic
concepts that define the data provided in the GSS Cycle 32 public use microdata files, the underlying
methodology of the survey and the key aspects of data quality. This information will provide a better
understanding of the strengths and limitations of the data, and how they can be effectively used and
analyzed. The information may be of particular importance when making c omparisons with data from
other surveys or sources of information, and in drawing conclusions regarding change over time, or
differences between sub-groups of the target population.
2. Objectives of the General Social Survey
The GSS program, established in 1985, conducts telephone surveys across the ten provinces. The GSS
is recognized for its regular collection of cross -sectional data that allows for trend analysis and its
capacity to test and develop new concepts that address current or emerging issues.
The two primary objectives of the General Social Survey are:
a) To gather data on social trends in order to monitor changes in the living conditions and well -being
of Canadians over time; and
b) To provide immediate information on specific social policy issues of current or emerging interest.
To meet these objectives, the data collected by the GSS comprise two components: core content and
classification content. Core content - caregiving and care receiving in the case of the 2018 GSS on
Caregiving and Care Receiving - measures changes in society related to living conditions and well -
being, and supplies data to inform specific policy issues. Classification variables (such as, age, sex,
education, income) help delineate population groups for use in the analysis of core data.
3. Content of the 2018 GSS on Caregiving and Care Receiving
The General Social Survey on Caregiving and Care Receiving collects information on Canadians who
receive help or care because of a long-term health condition, a disability or problems related to aging,
and those who provide help or care to family members or friends with these types of conditions.

--- PAGE 5 ---
3
Getting Started: Introduction and respondent selection
The purpose of this section is to introduce the survey and select a respondent.
The 2018 GSS on Caregiving and Care Receiving used a new method called age-order selection, to
select a respondent. The selection algorithm was based on the number of eligible persons living in the
household and the age order rank of each household member.
For a portion of the sample, a letter was mailed to the selected household and a household member
was selected via the letter to complete the electronic questionnaire. The selected respondent was invited
to complete the questionnaire on the internet by accessing the online questionnaire and typing the
security access code (SAC) provided in the letter.
The age-order selection method was also used for the other portion of the sample. The initial contact to
the household was made by telephone and the selection was done with the interviewer.
A Roster was used to collect key demographic information on each member of the household, including
age, sex, and relationships to other household members. In special circumstances--when respondents
do not speak English or French, or are unable to participate in the survey because of a health condition,
a physical or mental disability or problems related to aging--proxies are allowed to answer on behalf of
the selected respondent. Approximately 2% of interviews were completed by proxies.
Confirmation questions and main activity
In this short module, selected respondents are asked for their date of birth and confirmation of their age
(ANCQ) their marital status ( MSNC). In addition, a few short questions ask about the respondents'
children (NLC) and employment status (LMAM, LPY, REW). These questions direct the flow of questions
in subsequent sections.
Care receiving
Care receiving in general (CAR to NFA)
This section begins by asking individuals if they had received, during the past 12 months, care or help
for a long-term health condition, a physical or mental disability or problems related to aging.
• Those who say "no" go to the last module of this section (module NFA) an d are asked if they
had needed help and if they had asked for help. These questions measure the unmet needs of
those Canadians who are not receiving care but would like to.
• People who indicate that they did receive care continue through this section (PRA to BFP), which
cover the types of activities they received help with (transportation, cooking, house cleaning,
etc), the number of hours of help they received, the number of people who helped them, their
relationships to these people and the age, sex and employment status of their caregivers. These
modules focus on painting an overall picture of the respondent's care profile. Please note: some
10.2% of respondents who answered "yes" to CAR_Q110 or CAR_Q115, indicating that they
have received care during th e past 12 months , then responded "no" to all activity questions in
ARE (indicating that they did not receive help from family or friends with any specific activity)
and PAA (indicating that they did not receive help from professionals with any specific activity).
No further care receiving information over the past 12 months was collected fr om these
individuals. They are not considered to be care receivers, even though they ini tially identified
themselves as such.

--- PAGE 6 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
4
Module PRA asks what the main health condition or problem is for which the respondent received care.
Following are a set of questions (module ARE) about help received from family, friends or neighbours
with eight activ ities (transportation; cooking; house cleaning; outdoor work; personal care; medical
treatments; banking; scheduling activities or anything else).
Information on the characteristics of people who helped, their relationship to the respondent and the
number of hours of help they provided are also collected (HAR to RES).
A parallel set of questions follow, concerning help received from professionals. Combining care received
from family/friends and professionals provides a complete picture of help received from all sources (PAA
and DPA).
Finally, respondents are also asked if they are satisfied with the care they had received, as well as the
balance of care from professionals and family members/friends (CNR to BFP).
Care received from Primary Caregiver (PGN to PGH)
These modules examine who the respondent's primary caregiver is; that is, the person who provides
the most time and resources to the respondent. In most cases, this person is an immediate family
member (often a spouse, adult child, or parent) or close friend. Questions probe the primary caregiver's
relationship to the respondent, their employment status, the year when they started providing care, how
close they live to the respondent and frequency of contact with each other.
Types of care received from primary caregiver (AGT to AGX)
The next set of questions explore the activities with which the primary caregiver helped the respondent,
the amount of time spent receiving care and the frequency of the care provided. Once again, these
questions revisit the activities listed in module ARE. However, at this point we only ask the respondent
more details about the specific activities for which they had indicated having received help as reflected
in their answers to prior questions in the general module.
Caregiving
Caregiving in general (ICG to APX)
This section looks at life from the caregiver's perspective. Unlike the care receiving section, where
respondents are asked if they had received care from family/friends or professionals, Section 2 is only
interested in care provided by the respondent to family, friends or neighbours. A professional or
volunteer, whose job it is to care for patients or clients, is excluded from this section.
The first question in this section asks if the respondent had provided, during the past 12 months, help
or care to family, friends or neighbours because of a long -term health condition, physical or mental
disability or problems related to aging.
• If the answer is "no" the respondents skip to module CGH, which looks at care they may have
provided prior to the past 12 months in order to get a picture of all care given over the lifetime.
• Those respondents who did provide care during the past 12 months continue through
subsequent modules (APR-APX), which cover the types of activities they helped with
(transportation, cooking, house cleaning, etc), the number of hours of help they gave, the number
of people they helped, their relationships to these people and the age, sex and employment
status of those they helped. These modules focus on painting an overall picture of the
respondent's care profile. Please note: 3.5% of respondents who answered "yes" to ICG_Q110
or ICG_Q115, indicating that they have provided care during the past 12 months, then responded

--- PAGE 7 ---
5
"no" to all activity questions in module APR (indicating that they did not provide help to family or
friends with any specific activity). No further caregiving information over the past 12 months was
collected from these individuals. They are not considered to be caregivers, even though they
initially identified themselves as such.
Primary care receiver (PRN to PRH)
These questions look at who the respondent's primary care receiver is; that is, the person to whom the
respondent provides the most time and resources. Most often, the primary care receiver will be an
immediate family member (often a spouse, child or parent) or close friend. Module PRP asks about the
main health condition for which this person is receiving care. Questions probe the primary care receiver's
relationship to the respondent (PRG), their employment sta tus (PRW), the year when they started
receiving care from the respondent (PRS), how close they live to the respondent (PRD) and the
frequency of contact with each other (PRH).
Types of care to the primary care receiver (ART to ARX)
Modules (ART to ARX) explore the types of help provided by the respondent to the primary care receiver
along with the amount and frequency of providing this help. Questions only ask about the specific
activities that the respondents previously indicated providing help with in the APR module.
Caregiving network and sources of support (CGN to OAC)
Successful caregiving often hinges on the help and support of others. These modules cover the
characteristics of individuals who provided additional help to the respondent's primary care receiver as
well as help received from paid workers and organizations. In addition, respondents are asked if they
had received support from family, friends, their community or other sources to help them carry out their
caregiving responsibilities.
End-of-life care (CGE to CEH)
This set of questions concerns end-of-life or palliative care that respondents may have provided or may
still be providing. Many people prefer to be at home, as opposed to a hospital setting, when nearing the
end of life. Modules CPE and PEH ask what types of conditions may enable respondents to care for
dying relatives or friends in their own home, should they wish to do so.
The consequences of caregiving on the caregiver (ICL to ICF2)
Providing care may be both stressful and rewarding , and how the caregiver manages has significant
implications for his/her ability to continue providing care. These questions investigate the consequences
of caregiving on the lives of those who provide this care. Questions ask h ow caregiving affects the
respondent's family, personal and social life; behaviours associated with healthy living (exercise, eating,
drinking and smoking); physical health; stress and emotional health. Detailed questions investigate out-
of-pocket expenses and possible financial hardship suffered as a result of these expenses.
Note: Individuals who provided 1 hour or less care per week are excluded from modules on
consequences in order to avoid unnecessary respondent burden.
The consequences of caregiving on education and employment
The module ESC1 asks whether the respondent is currently attending an educational institution ; the
EDM block asks about the type of educational institution the respondent is attending; and EHG3 asks
the respondent's highest level of schooling. The module ICE asks about the specific consequences of
caregiving on the caregiver's education, such as postponing enrollment in courses or studies be ing
affected by the time committed to caregiving.

--- PAGE 8 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
6
Questions on the respondent's labour market activity in the past week (LMAM) and main activity during
the past 12 months (LPY) were asked early on in the survey, as they were needed to direct the flow into
subsequent modules. This section completes the information concerning the respondent's employment.
Modules NWE to FWA ask about the type of employment the respondent had over the past year (full -
time, part-time, shift, etc.), the number of hours worked in a typical week and the options to telework
and to use flexible work arrangements. These questions are asked of everyone, but are particularly
important for caregivers, whose ability to continue providing care often depends on how accommodating
their employers are.
The section concludes with questions about respondents' work-life balance and their level of satisfaction
with this balance. Modules ITL to ITO examine the consequences of caregiving on the respondent's
employment during the past 12 months. Specifically, respondents are asked about missing part or full
days of work; reducing weekly hours of work; loss of employment benefits; giving up a job and losing a
job. A similar set of questions is asked in modules IPL to IPR focusing on the period prior to the past 12
months.
Housing
The module DOR looks at the type of dwelling of respondents (single, semi-detached, apartment, etc.),
if the dwelling is owned or rented and how long the person has lived there. The survey also asks about
people's attachment to their neighbourhood and the favours neighbours are willing to do for each other.
These questions are meant to gauge a sense of belonging to one's community.
The AHR module explores accessible housing. These questions cover features such as having a level
entrance with no stairs, ramps or elevators, doors wide enough to accommodate wheelchairs, easy to
open doors and lowered counters.
Health and well-being
The next modules (SRH to CHC) are asked of all respondents in order to establish their general health
and well-being. Specific questions look at how people rate their physical and mental health, their eating
and exercise habits, life satisfaction and the levels of stress they experience on an average day.
The Disability Screening questions (DSQ) investigate the respondents' functional health with respect to
their vision, hearing , mobility (ability to get around), flexibility, dexterity (use of hands and fingers),
learning, development, memory, mental health, and pain. These questions give us a sense of how well
individuals are able to function in everyday lif e. Answers are used to establish the used frequently by
researchers to assess functional health.
Other modules ask about difficulties with sleeping, and the presence of any long-term health conditions.
A set of questions (FLG) probes respondents' feelings about their connections with other people and
their sense of connectedness or isolation. These questions constitute the Loneliness Scale, another
important tool used to assess how well people are coping with life.
Classification variables
The next series of questions (BPR to LAN) provide demographic information on respondents, including
their place of birth immigration status details when applicable, aboriginal identity, visible minority status,
religion and language.
The final question on the survey, which was new for GSS32 ask ed respondents if they ever served in
the Canadian military (VET).

--- PAGE 9 ---
7
4. New content and changes to previously existing content
This section summarizes key changes to the survey content, frame, coding, processing and weights
and discusses the issue of compa rability of estimates for the 2018 GSS on Caregivers and Care
Receivers to previous cycles.
4.1 Summary of keys changes
The content of GSS Caregiving and Care Receiving has changed over time since its first iteration in
1985. However, much of the content between cycle 26 (2012) and cycle 32 (2018) remains the same
allowing for greater comparability between the two cycles. In 2018, questions were added to collect
additional information on other finances (ICF2) as well, the veteran's identifier (VET) was added.
The disability screening questions (DSQ) replaced eight modules; VIS (Vision), HRG (Hearing), SPC
(speech), GTA (mobility), HAF (Dexterity), MEM (Memory) TKG (Cognition), PAD (Pain and Discomfort)
that were used to establish the Health Utility Index questions (HUI).
Additional content changes are described in the socio-demographic classification section below.
1) Socio-demographic classification
Many survey specific socio-demographic questions were replaced by Statistics Canada's harmonized
content questions (i.e., standardized modules for household survey variables, such as marital status,
education, labour force, aboriginal identity, birth place, citizenship, self -rated health and religion).
Harmonized content modules contain standard concepts, definitions, classification and wording for
multiple collection modes. This new standardized content is for the most part very similar to the previous
concepts used by the GSS, but in some cases required adjustments to the traditionally derived variables.
2) Income
In 2018, income questions were no longer asked. Income information was obtained instead through a
linkage to tax data. Respondents were notified of the planned linkage before and during the survey.
Those who objected to the linking had their objections recorded. For these individuals, no linkage to
their tax data took place. Linking to tax data diminishes respondent burden and increases data quality
both in terms of accuracy and in response rates. The 2018 GSS on Caregiving and Care Receiving
includes personal and family incomes. (See Section 7.3 for more details.)
3) Frame
The 2018 GSS on Caregiving and Care Receiving uses the redesigned GSS frame, which integrates
data from sources of telephone numbers (landline and cellular) available to Statistics Canada and the
Address Register (AR). This new frame includes "cell phone only" households, a growing population not
covered by the previous Random Digit Dialling (RDD) frame. The sampling unit is als o different and is
defined as groups of telephone numbers. (See Section 5.3 for more details.)
4) Coding
The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) 2017 and National Occupational
Classification (NOC) 2016 were used for industry and occupation coding.

--- PAGE 10 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
8
5) Processing
Most of the ongoing data processing steps are standard, including consistency edits and family edits.
All social surveys have variable names of 8 characters or less and the following reserve codes:
6 Valid skip
9 Not stated
6) Tax data linkage
Linkage with tax records was successful and fiscal information was available for 87.6% of the 2018 GSS
on Caregiving and Care Receiving respondents. This rate is calculated among those who did not object
to the linkage, which corresponds to 97.1% of the respondents.
7) Weights
Starting in 2013, the use of a new sampling frame and a new definition of the sampling unit have led to
a new weighting strategy for the GSS (see Section 8.1). Additionally, the bootstrap weighting strategy
has been changed from mean bootstrap to standard bootstrap weights (see Appendix A for more
information on how to use standard bootstrap weights).
4.2 Comparability of estimates
The 2018 GSS on Caregivers and Care Receivers offered for the first time an Internet option to survey
respondents. This new approach to data collection was in recognition of the need to adapt to the
changing use of technology and the ever present demands o n Canadians' time. By having both
telephone and Internet modes of data collection, the 2018 GSS on Caregiving and Care Receiving
offered survey respondents greater flexibility and convenience in providing key and vital information to
Statistics Canada. It is important to point out that any significant change in survey methodology can
affect the comparability of the data over time. It is impossible to determine with certainty whether, and
to what extent, differences in a variable are attributable to an actua l change in the population or to
changes in the survey methodology. However, there are reasons to believe that the use of an electronic
questionnaire might have an impact of the estimations. At every stage of processing, verification and
dissemination, considerable effort was made to produce data that are as precise in their level of detail,
and to ensure that the published estimates are of good quality in keeping with Statistics Canada
standards.
5. Survey and sample design
Data for 2018 GSS on caregiving and care receiving was collected from April 3rd to December 28th 2018.
Please see the following sections for descriptions of the target population, stratification, frame, sampling
strategy, sample size and sample allocation.
5.1 Target population
The target population for Cycle 32 of the GSS includes all persons 15 years of age and older in Canada,
excluding:
1. Residents of the Yukon, Northwest Territories, and Nunavut;
2. Full-time residents of institutions.

--- PAGE 11 ---
9
5.2 Stratification
In order to carry out sampling, each of the ten provinces were divided into strata; i.e., geographic areas.
Many of the Census Metropolitan Areas1 (CMAs) were each considered separate strata. This was the
case for St. John's, Halifax, Saint John, Montreal, Quebec Cit y, Toronto, Ottawa, Hamilton, Winnipeg,
Regina, Saskatoon, Calgary, Edmonton and Vancouver.
All CMAs not on this list are located in Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia, with the exception of
Moncton. Three more strata were formed by grouping the remaining CMAs (except Moncton) in each of
Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia. Finally, the non -CMA areas of each of the ten provinces were
also grouped to form ten more strata, for a total of 27 strata. Moncton was added to the Non -CMA
stratum for New Brunswick.
5.3 Frame
The survey frame was created using two different components:
• Lists of telephone numbers in use (both landline and cellular) available to Statistics Canada from
various sources (telephone companies, Census of population, etc.);
• The Address Register (AR): List of all dwellings within the ten provinces.
The Address Register (AR) was used to group together all telephone numbers associated with the same
valid address. About 86% of available telephone numbers were linked to the AR. The records resulting
from this linkage could possess more than one telephone number (grouped by the address). The other
14% of telephone numbers not linked to the AR were also included on the frame 2. The combination of
those two components resulted in the survey frame. The rationale for using all the telephone numbers
(linked and not linked to the AR) was to ensure a good coverage of all households with telephone
numbers.
When more than one telephone number was attached to a record, they were sorted by source and by
type of telephone number (landline telephone numbers first and cellular telephone numbers last). The
first telephone number was considered the best telephone number available to reach the household.
Please note that for the remaining sections of this document, the word "record" will refer to the grouping
of telephone numbers that consists of our sampling unit on the survey frame.
5.4 Sampling strategy
Each record in the survey frame was assigned to a stratum within its province. A simple random sample
without replacement of records was next selected in each stratum.
The frame for GSS was created using several linked sources, such as the Census of population,
administrative data files and billing files. Compared to the previous random digit dialing frame, coverage
was improved (though over coverage and under coverage may still exist). Households without
telephones were excluded from the survey population. Survey estimates were adjusted (weighted) to
represent all persons in the target population, including those not covered by the survey frame.
1 Based on 2011 Census geography
2 About 9% of these telephone numbers were grouped using address information from administrative sources. Each of the
remaining telephone numbers constitutes a single record on the frame.

--- PAGE 12 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
10
For the 2018 GSS on Caregiving and Care Receiving , 94.2% of the selected telephone numbers
reached eligible households. To be eligible, a household had to include at least one person 15 years of
age or older. During collection, households that did not meet the eligibility criteria were terminated after
an initial set of questions that determined eligibility.
A respondent was then selected from the age-order method each household to complete an electronic
questionnaire or to respond to a telephone interview.
5.5 Rejective Sampling
As part of the sample design for Cycle 32, due to the potential difficulties in reaching care receivers as
a result of their low prevalence in the population, an approach called 'rejective sampling' was chosen.
Rejective sampling works by 'rejecting' a certain portion of the population with a gi ven probability in
order to allow more time and effort to be spent trying to find the population of interest.
In the case of Cycle 32, the interviews for a pre-set proportion of respondents that are non -caregivers
and non-care receivers are terminated after an initial set of questions that establish that they are in fact
neither caregivers nor care receivers. Although, they are considered respondents, these 'rejected'
cases, whose interviews are terminated, are removed from the PUMF and not directly used in any
estimates produced for this cycle. Instead, their information is accounted for in the weighting process
through the remaining respondents (see Section 8 for more information). Note that the "care population"
(i.e., caregivers and/or care receivers or needed care ) are identified as those respondents who said
'Yes' to at least one of the following questions: CAR_Q110, CAR_Q115, NFA_Q10, ICG_Q110,
ICG_Q115. In other words, respondents who indicated having needed help or care but who have not
received any are also part of this population.
This rejective sampling technique is analogous to sub -sampling, except that rather than viewing it as
sub-sampling a portion of respondents (i.e. those not 'rejected') it is viewed contrarily as 'rejecting' a
portion of the respondents (i.e. all those not sub -sampled). By rejecting a portion of respondents, it
allows for more call attempts to be made, possibly increasing the number of care receivers found. It
should be pointed out that , because caregivers ar e more prevalent in the population , they are much
easier to find than care receivers.
The pre-set proportion of non-caregivers and non-care receivers that are rejected (i.e. the rejection rate)
varies by province and can be as low as 20% and as high as 75%. The rejection rates by province are
as follows:
- Newfoundland, Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick - 75%
- Quebec - 30%
- Ontario - 20%
- Manitoba, Saskatchewan - 70%
- Alberta - 60%
- British Columbia - 40%
At the time the sample file was created, a flag was included which was randomly set so that it had a "1
minus rejection rate" chance of being set to one and the same chance as the "rejection rate" of being
set to zero. So, for instance, for Quebec, all cases would have a 70% (1 -.30) chance of the flag being
set to a one and a 30% chance of the flag being set to a zero. If a respondent was a non-caregiver and
a non-care receiver and the randomly set flag on the sample file had been set to one, then the interview
continued until the end of the ques tionnaire; if the flag had been set to zero, the interview ended after
the screening questions (listed above). If the respondent was a caregiver and/or a care receiver, the
flag was ignored.

--- PAGE 13 ---
11
5.6 Sample size and allocation
The target sample size (i.e. the number of respondents excluding 'rejected' respondents) for Cycle 32 was
20,000, while the final sample size (again excluding 'rejected' respondents) was 20,258. For each province,
minimum allowable sample sizes were determined that would ensure that certain estimates would have
an acceptable low sampling variability at the stratum level. Once these stratum sample size targets had
been met, the remaining sample was allocated to the strata in a way that balanced the need for precision
of both national-level and stratum-level estimates.
6. Collection and response rate
6.1 Collection
Data for the GSS 32 was collected via a self-reporting respondent electronic questionnaire (rEQ) or an
interviewer led electronic questionnaire (iEQ). Respondents were interviewed in the official language of
their choice. Proxy interviews were permitted and approximately 2% of interviews were completed by a
proxy respondent.
Telephone interviews were conducted from five of Statistics Canada's regional offices, Halifax,
Sherbrooke, Sturgeon Falls Winnipeg and Edmonton. Interviewers were trained by Statistics Canada
staff in telephone interviewing techniques using the electronic questionnaire (iEQ), as well as in survey
concepts and procedures. The majority of interviewers had experience interviewing for previous GSS
cycles.
Interviewers were instructed to make all reasonable attempts to contact the selected member of the
household, 15 years of age or older . Those who at first refused to participate were re-contacted up to
two more times to explain the importance of the survey and to encourage their participation. For cases
in which the timing of the interviewer's call was inconvenient, an appointment was arranged to call back
at a more convenient time. For cases in which there was no one home, numerous call backs were made.
Data for Cycle 32 of GSS were collected from April 3rd 2018 to December 28th 2018. The total sample
was divided into 3 non-overlapping waves of collection, each lasting three months. Collection was
completed over the three month period and the process for the next wave would start at the beginning
of the following month.
6.2 Response rate
The overall response rate was 52.8%.
The 2018 sample was selected using the new GSS frame, which necessitated some adjustments in the
methodology used to calculate the response rates. Addition of "cell phone only" households to the frame
was essential since this population constitutes a constantly growing portion of the population and
coverage had been steadily declining with the previous frame. While the addition of these households
is necessary for coverage of the Canadian population, this population is harder to reach. Another factor
that affects comparability of the response rate over time is the way in which status (in -scope, out-of-
scope) is determined under the new design.

--- PAGE 14 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
12
7. Processing
Data processing is used to transform survey responses obtained during collection into a form that is
suitable for tabulation and data analysis. It includes all data handling activities - automated and manual
- that occur after collection and prior to the dissemination of estimates.
7.1 Data capture
Responses to survey questions were entered directly into computers by respondents who self -
completed the electronic questionnaire (rEQ) and by i nterviewers who completed interviews with
respondents by telephone (iEQ). Both respondents and interviewers used the same data capture system
to complete the questionnaire.
The data capture program allowed a valid range of codes for each question, had built in edits, and
automatically followed the flow of the questionnaire. The data output was encrypted and transmitted
electronically to Ottawa.
7.2 Coding
Several questions allowed for write-in responses. These responses were coded into existing categories
(where a match was possible), grouped into new categories or left in "other-specify" (if a match with an
existing category was not possible or the frequencies were too small to create a new category). Where
possible (e.g., occupation, industry, language, country of birth, religion), coding followed standard
classification systems used by the population census and Statistics Canada's harmonized content
program.
7.3 Edit and imputation
Electronic files containing the daily transmissions of completed respondent survey records were
combined to create the "raw" survey file. Before further processing, verification was performed to identify
and eliminate potential duplicate records and to drop non-response and out-of-scope records.
A number of out -of-scope respondents were identified during the data processing and data cleanup
stages. A small percentage of the sample, identified through specific questions related to age and
whether or not selected telephone number was personal and belonged to someone in the household
were determined to be out -of-scope. All records that were determined to be out -of-scope or to be
nonresponse were removed from the data file.
Records with missing or incorrect information were, in a small number of cases, corrected
deterministically from other information on the questionnaire. The flow editing carried out by head office
followed a 'top down' strategy, in that whether or not a gi ven question was considered 'on path' was
based on the response codes to the previous questions. If the response codes to the previous questions
indicated that the current question was 'on path', the responses, if any, to the current question were
retained, if, however, a response was missing to the current question, it was coded as 'Not Stated', i.e.
9 (99 or 999, etc.). If the response codes to the previous questions indicated that the current question
was 'off path' because the respondent was clearly identified as belonging to a sub-population for which
the current question was inappropriate or not of interest, the current question was coded as 'Valid skip,
i.e. 6 (96 or 996, etc.).

--- PAGE 15 ---
13
In 2018, personal income questions were not asked as part of the survey. Personal income information
was obtained instead through a linkage to tax data for respondents who did not object to this linkage.
Income information was obtained from the 2017 T1FF for 85.1% of the respondents. As in the 2017
GSS, the family income (i.e., linking directly to a variable on the T1FF that corresponds to the census
family income) was used for the 2018 GSS on Caregiving and Care Receiving. In total, a family income
value was obtained for 85.1% of households. Missing information for all other respondents was imputed.
7.4 Creation of combined and derived variables
A number of variables on the file were derived by combining items on the questionnaire in order to
facilitate analysis. In some cases, the derived variables were straightforward and involved the collapsing
of categories. In other cases, two or more variables were combined to create a new variable. The data
dictionary identifies which variables were derived and the nature of their derivation.
8. Estimation
When a probability sample is used, as is the case for GSS, the principle behind estimation is that each
person selected in the sample represents (in addition to himself or herself) several other persons not in
the sample. For example, in a simple random sample of 2% of a population size of 1000, each person
in the sample represents 50 persons in the population. The number of persons represented by a given
person in the sample is usually known as the weight or weighting factor of the sampled person.
There are two microdata files from which GSS Cycle 32 estimates can be made: The Analytical File and
the PUMF (Public Use Microdata File),.
One weighting factor was placed on the PUMF and is explained below:
WGHT_PER: This is the basic weighting factor for analysis at the person level, i.e. to calculate estimates
of the number of persons (non -institutionalized and aged 15 or over) having one or several given
characteristics. WGHT_PER should be used for all person-level estimates.
In addition to the estimation weights, bootstrap weights have been created for the purpose of design -
based variance estimation.
8.1 Weighting of persons
As mentioned previously, the records on the survey frame are groups of telepho ne numbers. A simple
random sample of those records was selected in each stratum. Therefore, each record within a stratum
has an equal probability of selection.
This probability is equal to:
Number of records sampled in the stratum
Number of records in the stratum from the survey frame
1) Initial weight calculation
Certain households in the survey frame had a probability of being reached through more than one
record. This was possible since groupings of telephone numbers were subject to error.
As mentioned previously, telephone numbers belonging to the same valid address were grouped
together on the survey frame. However, for a few cases, the grouping of those telephone numbers might

--- PAGE 16 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
14
be erroneous (i.e. all the telephone numbers grouped together do not belong to the same household).
In addition the remaining telephone numbers that could not be linked to addresses were also included
in the frame. It is possible that some of those telephone numbers could reach households already
covered by the telephone numbers linked to addresses.
As a result, a series of questions were added to the survey to establish the prevalence of these
situations. Several adjustments were made to the initial probability of selection to account for the fact
that such households had a higher probability of being selected (i.e. they could be contacted through
more than one group of telephone numbers). Therefore, the initial weight is the inverse of this adjusted
probability of selection. The resulting initial weight is a household weight.
2) Removal of out-of-scope records
Telephone numbers associated with businesses, institutions or other out-of-scope dwellings, as well as
numbers not in service or any other non -working numbers are all examples of out of -scope telephone
numbers for this survey. Records with all telephone numbers out-of-scope are simply removed from the
process, leaving only in -scope records in the sample. These in -scope records keep the same initial
weight as described in the previous step.
3) Three-stage non-response adjustment
Weights for responding telephone numbers were adjusted to represent non -responding telephone
numbers.
Non-responding telephone numbers were grouped into three types: those with some auxiliary
information available (in particular, a complete roster of household members), those with auxiliary
information from various sources available to Statistics Canada and those with no auxiliary information.
This non-response adjustment was done in three stages. In the first stage, adjustments were made for
complete non-response (i.e., households for which no auxiliary information was available). This was
done independently within each stratum. In the second stage, adjustments were made for non-response
with auxiliary information from sources available to Statistics Canada. These households had some
auxiliary information obtained from other sources than the ques tionnaire which was used to model
propensity to respond. In the third stage, adjustments were made for partial non -response. These
households had some auxiliary information obtained through the questionnaire which was used to model
propensity to respond. The last two adjustments were done independently within each wave. The
combination of these three adjustments is referred to as Factor 1.
Non-responding telephone numbers were then dropped.
4) Person weight calculation
A person weight was calculated for the respondent by multiplying the household weight by the number
of persons 15 years of age or older in the household.
This step produces a person weight, which can be calculated as:
Initial Household Weight x Factor 1 x Number of Eligible Household Members.
5) Adjustment of person weights for Rejective Sampling

--- PAGE 17 ---
15
In order to adjust for the 'rejecting' of a proportion of respondents that are neither caregivers nor care
receivers nor a person requiring care, the person weight for respondents that are not 'rejected' and are
neither caregivers nor care receivers nor a person requiring care is multiplied by a factor. This factor is
equal to:
Sum of weights for non-caregiving/receiving respondents
in each stratum-wave-age group
Sum of weights for non-caregiving/receiving respondents
not 'rejected' in each stratum-wave-age group
There are two age categories within each stratum-wave group; less than 45 and 45 and over.
There is no adjustment to the person weights for caregivers and/or care receivers (i.e. the factor=1).
'Rejected' responding units are dropped at this step.
6) Adjustment of person weights to external totals
The person weights were adjusted several times using a raking ratio procedure. This procedure ensures
that, based on the survey's total sample, estimates produced that should match certain external
reference totals do indeed match them. Two sets of external references were used for this survey, both
of them population totals: for stratum (geographic, and for age-sex groups by province.
It should be noted that persons living in households without telephone service (or telephone service not
covered by the frame) are included in the external references even though such persons were not
sampled.
6a) Stratum - Wave Adjustment
An adjustment was made to the person weights on records within each stratum (geographic) per wave
in order to make population estimates consistent with the corresponding projected population counts.
This was done by multiplying the person weight for each record within the stratum by the following ratio:
Projected population count for the stratum-wave
Sum of the person weights for the stratum-wave
When sample sizes were small (< 15), data for adjacent waves in the same stratum were combined
before this adjustment was made.
6b) Province - age - sex adjustment
The next weighting step was to adjust the weights to agree with projected province-age-sex population
distributions. Projected population counts were obtained for males and females within the following
sixteen age groups:
15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34
35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54
55-59 60-64 65-69 70-74
75-79 80-84 85-89 90 +
For each of the resulting classifications the person weights for records within the classification were
adjusted by multiplying by the following ratio:

--- PAGE 18 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
16
Projected Province-Age-Sex Group Population Count
Sum of the Province-Age-Sex Group Person Weights
When sample sizes were small, adjacent age group data for the same province and sex were combined
before this adjustment was made.
6c) Raking ratio adjustments
The weights of each respondent were adjusted several times using a raking ratio procedure to ensure
that estimates produced for Stratum -Wave and Province -Age-Sex totals agree with the external
reference totals. This adjustment was made by repeating steps 6a) and 6b) of the weighting procedures
until each repetition of the step made a minimal adjustment to the weights.
7) Final person weight
The weight produced at the end of step 6) is the final person weight (WGHT_PER) placed on the PUMF.
8.2 Weighting policy
Users are cautioned against releasing unweighted tables or performing any analysis based on
unweighted survey results. As was discussed in Section 8.1, there were several weight adjustments
performed that depended on the province, care giving/receiving status, stratum, age and sex of the
respondent. Sampling rates, rejection rates, as well as non -response rates varied significantly from
province to pr ovince, and non -response rates varied with demographic characteristics. For example,
non-respondents are often more likely to be males and more likely to be younger. In the responding
sample, 1.0% of persons were males between the ages of 15 and 19, while in the overall population
approximately 3.4% were males between 15 and 19. Therefore, it is clear that unweighted sample
counts cannot be considered to be representative of the survey target population.
The total number of households in the survey's scope was estimated at 58,176. Among these
households, 30,689 usable responses were obtained (although only 20,258 responses remain on the
PUMF due to 'rejected' responding units being dropped), which gives a response rate of 52.8%. The
distribution of the non-response and response categories is given in the table below:
Source Number %
1. Household non-response 23,373 40.2
2. Non-response (person level) 4,114 7.1
3. Responses kept 20,258 34.8
4. Rejected responses 10,431 17.9
Total Households 58,176 100.0
In all, there were 27,487 non-response cases (lines 1 and 2), which represented 47.3% of the household
sample. The non-response includes cases of refusal by the selected person or because of language
difficulties or other problem for example. Responses obtained from Electronic Questionnaire (EQ)
represents 48.6% of the 30 689 responses obtained.

--- PAGE 19 ---
17
8.3 Types of estimates
Two types of "simple" estimates are possible from the results of the GSS. These are qualitative
estimates (estimates of counts or proportions of people possessing certain qualities or characteristics)
and quantitative estimates involving quantities of averages. More complex estimation and analyses are
covered in Section 8.5.
8.3.1 Qualitative estimates
The target population for the GSS was non-institutionalized persons aged 15 and older, living in the ten
provinces. Qualitative estimates are estimates of the number or proportion of this target population
possessing certain characteristics. The number of people ( 6,259,848) who self -report their health as
excellent (SRH_Q110 = 1) is an example of this kind of estimate. These estimates are readily obtained
by summing the person weights (WGHT_PER) for the records possessing the characteristic of interest.
This estimate does not, however, adjust for non-response to the question in any way.
If we make the assumption that those who didn't responded have the same distribution as those who
responded, then an adjusted estimate can be made. To do this, the proportion of the target population
with this characteristic is estimated by excluding respondents with a 'Not Stated' answer to question
SRH_Q110 and calculating the ratio of the total of the weights of those respondents who reported that
their health was 'Excellent' (SRH_Q110=1) to that of all respondents who answered the question
(SRH_Q110=1, 2, 3, 4, or 5). This proportion is then multiplied by the size of the target population to
produce the final estimate (it should be noted that this adjustment does not have to be done, but it can
be if needed):
6,335,219 = 30,755,185 × 6,259,848
30,389,284
8.3.2 Quantitative estimates
Some variables on the Gener al Social Survey PUMF are quantitative in nature (e.g. age, number of
weeks employed in the past 12 months). From these variables, it is possible to obtain estimates such
as the average number of weeks employed in the past 12 months. These quantitative estimates are of
the following ratio form:
Estimate (average) = X
Y
The numerator (X) is a quantitative estimate of the total for the variable of interest (for example, the
number of weeks employed in the past 12 months) for a given sub-population (for example, males who
were employed in the past 12 months). In this example, X would be calculated by multiplying the person
weight (WGHT_PER) by the variable of interest (NWE_Q110) when it is known, 1 <= NWE_Q110 <=
52, (i.e. not equal to '96'or '99'), and summing this product over all records for males who worked i.e.
SEX=1 and (1 <= NWE_Q110 <= 52), which yields 485,664,613.
The denominator (Y) is the qualitative estimate of the number of persons within that sub -population
(males who was employed in the past 12 months). In this example, Y would be calculated by summing
the p erson weight (WGHT_PER) over all male respondents with 1 <= NWE_Q110 <= 52, yielding
10,805,698.
The two estimates X and Y are derived independently and then divided to provide the quantitative
estimate. The average number of weeks is then calculated to be:

--- PAGE 20 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
18
485,664,613
10,805,734 = 44.9
8.4 Guidelines for analysis
As detailed in Section 5 of this document, the GSS respondents do not form a simple random sample
of the target population. Instead, the survey had a complex design, with stratification and multiple stages
of selection, and unequal probabilities of selection of respondents. Using data from such complex
surveys presents analytical challenges because the survey design and the selection probabilities affect
the estimation and variance calculation procedures that should be used.
The GSS used a stratified design, with significant differences in sampling fractions between strata. Thus,
some areas were over-represented in the sample (relative to their populations) while some other areas
were relatively under -represented; this means that the unweighted sample was not representative of
the target population, even if there was no non-response. As well, rejection rates varied significantly by
province and by respondent type (i.e. a res pondent who gave care or received care versus someone
who didn't do either). This further compounds the fact that the unweighted sample will not be
representative of the target population. On top of that, non-response rates vary by demographic group,
making the unweighted sample even less representative.
The survey weights must be used when producing estimates or performing analyses in order to account
as much as possible for the over- and under-representation of geographic areas, respondent types, and
age-sex groups in the unweighted file. While many analysis procedures found in statistical packages
allow weights to be used, the meaning or definition of the weight in these procedures often differs from
that which is appropriate in a sample survey framework , with the result that while in many cases the
estimates produced by the packages are correct, the variances that are calculated are almost
meaningless.
For many analysis techniques (for example linear regression, logistic regression, estimation of rates and
proportions, and analysis of variance), a method exists which can make the variances calculated by the
standard statistical packages more meaningful. If the weights on the data, or on the subset of the data
that is of interest, are rescaled so that the average weight is one (1), then the variances produced by
the standard packages will be more reasonable; they still will not take into account the stratification and
clustering of the sample's design, but they will take into account the unequal probabilit ies of selection.
This rescaling can be accomplished by dividing each weight by the overall average weight before the
analysis is conducted. Section 9 describes sampling variability and data reliability in more detail.
8.5 Methods of estimation and interpretation of estimates
As previously mentioned, a basic person weight has been assigned to each sampled individual and, as
described in Section 8.1, these weights have been adjusted to reflect the age and sex composition of
the various provincial populations as estimated by Statistics Canada for each month covered by Cycle
32.
∑ 𝑊𝐺𝐻𝑇_𝑃𝐸𝑅
20,258
𝑖=1
= 30,755,185
3
3 Estimate of the number of persons aged 15 and over in the population

--- PAGE 21 ---
19
In general, when an estimate is based on the unit of observation being the person, the WGHT_PER
should be used. Examples of this are the average number of weeks work ed by persons aged 25 to 29
years old, the percentage of persons whose main activity in the past 12 months was going to school,
and the number of people aged between 25 and 44 who are currently attending school, college, CEGEP
or university.
9. Release guidelines and data reliability
It is important for users to become familiar with the contents of this section before publishing or otherwise
releasing any estimates derived from the General Social Survey PUMF.
This section of the documentation provides guidelines to be followed by users. With the aid of these
guidelines, users of the PUMF should be able to produce figures consistent with those produced by
Statistics Canada and in conformance with the established guidelines for rounding and release. The
guidelines include four broad sections: Minimum Sample Sizes for Estimates; Sampling Variability
Policy; Sampling Variability Estimation; and Rounding Policy.
9.1 Minimum sample size for estimates
Users should determine the number of records on the PUMF which contribute to the calculation of a
given estimate. This number should be at least 15 in the case of persons or households. When the
number of contributors to the weighted estimate is less than 15, the weighted estimate should generally
not be released regardless of the value of the coefficient of variation. If it is released, it should be with
great caution and the insufficient number of contributors associated with t he estimate should be
prominently noted.
9.2 Sampling variability guidelines
The estimates derived from this survey are based on a sample of persons. Somewhat different figures
might have been obtained if a complete census had been taken using the same q uestionnaire,
interviewers, supervisors, processing methods, etc. as those actually used. The difference between the
estimates obtained from the sample and the results from a complete count taken under similar conditions
is called the sampling error of the estimate.
Errors which are not related to sampling may occur at almost every phase of a survey operation.
Interviewers may misunderstand instructions, respondents may make errors in answering questions,
the answers may be incorrectly entered into the EQ system, and errors may be introduced in the
processing and tabulation of the data. These are all examples of non-sampling errors.
Over a large number of observations, randomly occurring errors will have little effect on estimates
derived from the survey. However, errors occurring systematically will contribute to biases in the survey
estimates. Considerable time and effort was made to reduce non-sampling errors in the survey. Quality
assurance measures were used at each step of the data collection and processing cycle to monitor the
quality of the data. These measures included the use of highly skilled interviewers, extensive training of
interviewers with respect to the survey procedures and questionnaire, observation of interviewers to
detect problems of questionnaire design or misunderstanding of instructions, and coding and edit quality
checks to verify the processing logic.
9.2.1 Non-sampling errors
A major source of non -sampling errors in surveys is the effect of non -response on the survey results.
The extent of non-response varies from partial non-response (failure to answer one or a few questions)

--- PAGE 22 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
20
to total non -response. Total non -response occurred because either the interviewer was unable to
contact the respondent, no member of the household was able to provide the information (perhaps due
to a language problem), or the respondent refused to participate in the survey. Total non-response was
handled by adjusting the weight of households who responded to the survey to compensate for those
who did not respond.
In most cases, partial non-response to the survey occurred when the respondent did not understand or
misinterpreted a question, refused to answer a question, or could not recall the requested information.
9.2.2 Sampling errors
Since it is an unavoidable fact that estimates from a sample survey are subject to sampling error, sound
statistical practice calls for researchers to provide users with some indication of the magnitude of this
sampling error.
Although the exact sampling error of the estimate, as defined above, cannot be measured from sample
results alone, it is possible to estimate a statistical measure of sampling error, the standard error, from
the sample data. Using the standard error, confidence intervals for estimates (ignoring t he effects of
non-sampling error) may be obtained under the assumption that the estimates are normally distributed
about the true population value. The chances are about 68 out of 100 that the difference between a
sample estimate and the true population va lue would be less than one standard error, about 95 out of
100 that the difference would be less than two standard errors, and virtually certain that the differences
would be less than three standard errors.
Since the absolute size of the sampling error of an estimate is often less important than its relative size
(relative to the estimate itself) the standard error is not always the best measure of sampling error. For
example, a standard error of 10 for an estimate of 20 would generally be taken as indicating that the
estimate is a poor one, while the same standard error for an estimate of 1,000 would generally indicate
a good estimate. For this reason the size of the sampling error is often expressed relative to the size of
the estimate, as the coefficient of variation (c.v.). The coefficient of variation of an estimate is obtained
by dividing the standard error of the estimate by the estimate itself, and the resulting fraction is usually
expressed as a percentage. In the above example, the first es timate has a c.v. of 50% (10/20), while
the second has a c.v. of 1% (10/1,000).
The choice between using the standard error or the CV as a measure of sampling variability is one the
user should make based on his/her specific analysis. Guidelines for publishing estimates using the CV
are given in the next section.
With enough observations, the user can proceed to calculating variances and coefficients of variation
using the bootstrap weights provided with the data (see Section 9.2.3 for guidelines to follow when using
coefficients of variation and Appendix A for more details on the appropriate software to use for bootstrap
weights).

--- PAGE 23 ---
21
9.2.3 Guidelines for release of estimates
When considering releasing and/or publishing an estimate from the PUMF, users sho uld consult the
table below and follow the guideline that matches the coefficient of variation of the estimate.
Type of Estimate
Coefficient of
Variation
Policy Statement
1. With Moderate Sampling Variability 0.0% to 16.5% Estimates can be considered for
general unrestricted release. No
special notation is required.
2. With High Sampling Variability 16.6% to 33.3% Estimates can be considered for
general unrestricted release but
should be accompanied by a
warning cautioning users of the
high sampling variability
associated with the estimates.
3. With Very High Sampling Variability
33.4% or over Estimates should generally not be
released, but when they are it
should be with great caution and
the very high sampling variability
associated with the estimate
should be prominently noted.
9.3 Variance estimation using bootstrap weights
In order to determine the quality of the estimate and to calculate the CV, the standard deviation must be
calculated. Confidence intervals also require the standard deviation of the estimate. The GSS uses a
multi-stage survey design and calibration, which means that there is no simple formula that can be used
to calculate variance estimates. Therefore, an approximate method was needed. The bootstrap method
is used because the sample design and calibration needs to be taken into account when calculating
variance estimates. With the use of available software to compute variances and the help of bootstrap
weights, the method is fairly easy for users. For more information on how to use the standard bootstrap
weight, refer to Appendix A.
This technique involves dividing the records on the microdata file into subgroups (or replicates) and
determining the variation in the estimates from replicate to replicate. The replicates are formed by
selecting, independently within each stratum, a simple random sample with replacement of n-1 of the n
units in the sample. Note that since the selection is with replacement, a unit may be chosen more than
once. A bootstrap weight based on the bootstrap sample is calculated for each sample unit in the
stratum. This process (selecti ng simple random samples, recalculating weights for each stratum) is
repeated B times, where B is large, yielding B different initial bootstrap weights. The GSS typically uses
B=500, to produce 500 bootstrap weights.
These weights are then adjusted according to the same weighting process as the regular person
weights: non-response adjustment, calibration and so on. The end result is 500 final bootstrap weights
for each unit in the sample. The variation among the 500 possible estimates based on the 500 bootstrap
weights is related to the variance of the estimator based on the regular weights and can be used to
estimate it.

--- PAGE 24 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
22
9.4 Rounding
In order for estimates produced from the GSS microdata files to correspond to those produced by
Statistics Canada, users are urged to adhere to the following guidelines regarding the rounding of such
estimates. It may be misleading to release unrounded estimates, as they imply greater precision than
actually exists.
9.4.1 Rounding guidelines
1) Estimates of totals in the main body of a statistical table should be rounded to the nearest thousand
using the normal rounding technique (see definition in Section 9.4.2).
2) Marginal sub -totals and totals in statistical tables are to be derived from their correspon ding
unrounded components and then are to be rounded themselves to the nearest thousand units using
normal rounding.
3) Averages, proportions, rates and percentages are to be computed from unrounded components and
then are to be rounded themselves to one decimal using normal rounding.
4) Sums and differences of aggregates and ratios are to be derived from corresponding unrounded
components and then rounded to the nearest thousand units or the nearest one decimal using normal
rounding.
5) In instances where, due to technical or other limitations, a different rounding technique is used,
resulting in estimates different from Statistics Canada estimates, users are encouraged to note the
reason for such differences in the released document.
9.4.2 Normal rounding
In normal rounding, if the first or only digit to be dropped is 0 to 4, the last digit to be retained is not
changed. If the first or only digit to be dropped is 5 to 9, the last digit to be retained is raised by one. For
example, the number 8499 rounded to thousands would be 8000 and the number 8500 rounded to
thousands would be 9000.
10. Additional information
Data from the survey is available through published reports, special request tabulations, and the
microdata file. The microdata file will be available from Diversity and Sociocultural Statistics, Statistics
Canada. Tabulations can be obtained at a cost that will reflect the resources required to produce the
tabulation.
To receive a copy of the microdata file or to order special tabulations, please contact:
Client Services
Diversity and Sociocultural Statistics
Statistics Canada
mailto:statcan.dssclientservices-dssserviceaclientele.statcan@canada.ca

--- PAGE 25 ---
23
Appendix A - Tips for using GSS standard bootstrap weights
A survey weight variable with a cor responding set of 500 standard bootstrap weight 4 variables are
provided with many GSS microdata files so that a full design-based approach may be taken for doing
analysis with the data.
A design -based approach to analysis first involves using the survey weight variable for obtaining
weighted estimates of the quantities of interest. Then, additional information about the survey design is
used in order to make estimates of the variances 5 (and covariances) of these estimated quantities. In
the case of many GSS microdata files, this additional information is in the form of 500 survey bootstrap
weight variables. The design-based estimates and variance estimates can then be used for making the
inferences required in the analysis.
The form of a bootstrap variance estimate can be described briefly as follows:
Let
ˆ be the weighted estimate of quantity of interest,
 , computed using the survey weight
variable
w , and let
)(ˆ b be an estimate obtained in exactly the same manner, except for
substituting the
b th bootstrap weight variable
)(bw for the survey weight variable
w ,
b=1,2,…500. This yields the bootstrap estimates
)500()1( ˆ,....,ˆ  of
 . Then the usual bootstrap
estimate of the variance of
ˆ is
( )
2500
1
)( ˆˆ
500
1)ˆ(ˆ 
=
−=
b
b
BV 
. (1)
If
ˆ is a vector instead of a single value, such as if
ˆ is the set of coefficients of a model, then
the matrix of estimates of the variances and covariances of the elements of
ˆ is
( )( )−−= 
=
 ˆˆˆˆ
500
1)ˆ(ˆ )(
500
1
)( b
b
b
BV
. (The value "500" in the formula is due to the fact that we
have 500 different series of bootstrap weights. If the number of bootstrap samples should
change from 500, then the values in formula (1) would need to change.)
Survey bootstrapping is just one replication approach that may be used in order to obtain design-based
variance estimates with survey data. While several commercial software packages for design -based
analysis offer replication approaches for variance estimation, they usually do not specify bootstrapping
as one of these approaches. However, due to the similarity in the form of the variance estimate for the
bootstrap and for the particular replication method called BRR, programs that can carry out variance
estimation by this latter approach with user-supplied replication weights can be used to obtain bootstrap
variance estimates6. In particular, in these software, the 500 bootstrap weights provided in the GSS
microdata files need to be designated as 500 BRR weights.
In the sections below, instructions will be given for implementing bootstrap variance estimation with GSS
microdata, using 3 different commercial software packages that can carry out some design -based
4 Since 2013, GSS has been using standard bootstrap weights. Special attention should be given to formula (1) as it is
different from the formula for the mean bootstrap weights.
5 The variance that is estimated in a design-based approach is the variability in an estimate due to re-sampling by exactly the
same design from the same finite population.
6 For a more detailed description see Gagné, Keown and Roberts (2014)

--- PAGE 26 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
24
analysis for BRR: Stata 9 or 10, SUDAAN and WesVar. In all GSS cycles where bootstrap weights are
provided, the names given to these bootstrap variables in the user documentation are wtbs_001 to
wtbs_5007. The name of the survey weight variable is usually wght_per.
Stata 12
Beginning with Version 9, the commercial software package Stata added some replication approaches
for carrying out design-based variance estimation in its survey analysis commands. Moreover, Stata 12
release included approaches specifically designed to work with Statistics Canada bootstrap weights.
One replication approach offered is the bootstrap approach, and it is this approach that would be
specified when analyzing GSS data.
In order to specify this approach, the following is recommended:
1. Before using any of the survey analysis commands, use a "svyset" statement to declare the data to
be survey data, to designate the variables that contain information about the survey design and to
specify the method for variance estimation. Settings made by "svyset" are saved with a dataset when
(or if) a dataset is saved. The form of the svyset statement to be used with a GSS analysis dataset
would have the following form:
svyset [pweight=wght_per], bsrweight(wtbs_001-wtbs_500) vce(bootstrap) dof(500) mse
Declaring pweight=wght_per tells Stata that the survey weight (which is often called the probability
weight) is the variable wght_per.
The option vce(bootstrap) states that the variance estimation approach to use is bootstrap.
The option bsrweight (wtbs_001-wtbs_500) states that the names of the bootstrap weight variables
are wtbs_001, wtbs_002, …, wtbs_500. This option can also be designated as bsrweight (wtbs_*)
provided there are no variables other than the bootstrap weight variables whose names begin with
"wtbs_".
The dof(500) option sets the degrees of freedom to the default. i.e. the number of bootstrap weights.
The number of primary sampling units containing sample in the population being analyzed minus the
number of strata containing sample could be a good approximation. However, this information is rarely
known by researchers. Most of the time, using the number of bootstrap weights will have negligible
impact on the results.
Finally, the mse option tells Stata to calculate the variance using squared differences between bootstrap
estimates and the full -sample estimate of the quantities of interest, as shown in equation (1). If this
option is not included, Stata uses squared differences between each bootstrap estimate and the mean
of all the bootstrap estimates. Both approaches should yield approximately the same result.
2. There is an extensive list of survey analysis commands in Stata, which take a design-based approach
in their computations. These commands, described in the Stata documentation, are implemented
through the use of the "svy" prefix along with the names of other estimators. For example, svy: mean
is the command for estimating population and subpopulation means and estimates of variability taking
a design-based approach. When the svyset statement precedes all survey commands, the survey
commands do not have to contain any information about the design-based approach to be taken.
7 Please note that in previous GSS cycles (Cycle 26 and earlier), the variables wtbs_001 to wtbs_500 were mean bootstrap
weights. Beginning with cycle 27 of GSS (2013), the variables wtbs_001 to wtbs_500 are standard bootstrap weights.

--- PAGE 27 ---
25
It should be noted that, even though most of the commands that allow the "svy" prefix are also the
names of commands for non-survey data, what is estimated, what options are available and what can
be done through post-estimation change when the "svy" prefix is added.
SUDAAN
SUDAAN is a commercial software package developed by the Research Triangle Institute specifically
for analysis of data from complex sample surveys and other observational and experimental studies
involving cluster -correlated data. The SAS -callable version of the software is particularly useful to
people familiar with SAS.
Specification of the variance est imation approach to be used by SUDAAN is done in the procedure
statement for a particular procedure. Additional sample design statements provide further information
required by the program. In particular, to carry out bootstrapping with GSS data, the fol lowing is
required:
- specify DESIGN=BRR in the procedure statement
- include the following WEIGHT statement to identify the survey weight variable:
WEIGHT wght_per;
- include the REPWGT statement to indicate the names of the bootstrap variables on your
data file. In particular, for GSS microdata files, this REPWGT statement would have the form:
REPWGT wtbs_001-wtbs_500;
WesVar
WesVar is a software package produced by Westat which carries out various analyses of survey data
using exclusively replication methods for variance estimation. One of the methods offered is BRR.
Quoting heavily from Phillips (2004), in WesVar, the variance estimation method is specified when
creating a new WesVar data file. The resulting file is then used to define workbooks where table and
regression requests are carried out. To define a WesVar data file with bootstrap weights:
- Move the replicate weight variables (i.e., wtbs-001 to wtbs_500) to the Replicates box..
- Move the survey weight variable (i.e., wght_per) to the Full sample box.
- For the mean bootstrap, specify the Method as BRR.
- Move analysis variables to the Variables box, a unique identifier to the ID box (optional), and
save the file.
References
Gagné, C., Roberts, G. and Keown, L. -A. (2014) " Weighted estimation and bootstrap variance
estimation for analyzing survey data: How to implement in selected software ". The Research Data
Centres Information and Technical Bulletin. (Winter) 6(1):5-70. Statistics Canada Catalogue no. 12-002-
X.
https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/pub/12-002-x/2014001/article/11901-eng.htm

--- PAGE 28 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
26
Appendix B - Citizenship codes
Code Country of Citizenship
0 Stateless
4 Afghanistan
8 Albania
12 Algeria
20 Andorra
24 Angola
28 Antigua and Barbuda
31 Azerbaijan
32 Argentina
36 Australia
40 Austria
44 Bahamas
48 Bahrain
50 Bangladesh
51 Armenia
52 Barbados
56 Belgium
64 Bhutan
68 Bolivia
70 Bosnia and Herzegovina
72 Botswana
76 Brazil
84 Belize
90 Solomon Islands
96 Brunei Darussalam
100 Bulgaria
104 Burma (Myanmar)
108 Burundi
112 Belarus
116 Cambodia
120 Cameroon
124 Canada
132 Cabo Verde
140 Central African Republic
144 Sri Lanka
148 Chad
152 Chile
156 China, People's Republic of
158 Taiwan

--- PAGE 29 ---
27
Code Country of Citizenship
170 Colombia
174 Comoros
178 Congo, Republic of the
180 Congo, Democratic Republic of the
188 Costa Rica
191 Croatia
192 Cuba
196 Cyprus
203 Czech Republic
204 Benin
208 Denmark
212 Dominica
214 Dominican Republic
218 Ecuador
222 El Salvador
226 Equatorial Guinea
231 Ethiopia
232 Eritrea
233 Estonia
242 Fiji
246 Finland
250 France
262 Djibouti
266 Gabon
268 Georgia
270 Gambia
275 West Bank and Gaza Strip (Palestine)
276 Germany
288 Ghana
296 Kiribati
300 Greece
308 Grenada
320 Guatemala
324 Guinea
328 Guyana
332 Haiti
336 Holy See (Vatican City State)
340 Honduras
348 Hungary
352 Iceland
356 India

--- PAGE 30 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
28
Code Country of Citizenship
360 Indonesia
364 Iran
368 Iraq
372 Ireland
376 Israel
380 Italy
384 Côte d'Ivoire
388 Jamaica
392 Japan
398 Kazakhstan
400 Jordan
404 Kenya
408 Korea, North
410 Korea, South
414 Kuwait
417 Kyrgyzstan
418 Laos
422 Lebanon
426 Lesotho
428 Latvia
430 Liberia
434 Libya
438 Liechtenstein
440 Lithuania
442 Luxembourg
450 Madagascar
454 Malawi
458 Malaysia
462 Maldives
466 Mali
470 Malta
478 Mauritania
480 Mauritius
484 Mexico
492 Monaco
496 Mongolia
498 Moldova
499 Montenegro
504 Morocco
508 Mozambique
512 Oman

--- PAGE 31 ---
29
Code Country of Citizenship
516 Namibia
520 Nauru
524 Nepal
528 Netherlands
548 Vanuatu
554 New Zealand
558 Nicaragua
562 Niger
566 Nigeria
578 Norway
583 Micronesia, Federated States of
584 Marshall Islands
585 Palau
586 Pakistan
591 Panama
598 Papua New Guinea
600 Paraguay
604 Peru
608 Philippines
616 Poland
620 Portugal
624 Guinea-Bissau
626 Timor-Leste
634 Qatar
642 Romania
643 Russian Federation
646 Rwanda
659 Saint Kitts and Nevis
662 Saint Lucia
670 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
674 San Marino
678 Sao Tome and Principe
682 Saudi Arabia
686 Senegal
688 Serbia
690 Seychelles
694 Sierra Leone
702 Singapore
703 Slovakia
704 Viet Nam
705 Slovenia

--- PAGE 32 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
30
Code Country of Citizenship
706 Somalia
710 South Africa, Republic of
716 Zimbabwe
724 Spain
728 South Sudan
736 Sudan
740 Suriname
748 Swaziland
752 Sweden
756 Switzerland
760 Syria
762 Tajikistan
764 Thailand
768 Togo
776 Tonga
780 Trinidad and Tobago
784 United Arab Emirates
788 Tunisia
792 Turkey
795 Turkmenistan
798 Tuvalu
800 Uganda
804 Ukraine
807 Macedonia, Republic of
818 Egypt
826 United Kingdom - British citizen
834 Tanzania
840 United States
854 Burkina Faso
858 Uruguay
860 Uzbekistan
862 Venezuela
882 Samoa
887 Yemen
894 Zambia
926 United Kingdom - dependencies and other
983 Kosovo

--- PAGE 33 ---
31
Appendix C - Country of birth codes
Code Country of birth
11124 Canada
11304 Greenland
11666 Saint Pierre and Miquelon
11840 United States
12084 Belize
12188 Costa Rica
12222 El Salvador
12320 Guatemala
12340 Honduras
12484 Mexico
12558 Nicaragua
12591 Panama
13028 Antigua and Barbuda
13044 Bahamas
13052 Barbados
13060 Bermuda
13092 Virgin Islands, British
13136 Cayman Islands
13192 Cuba
13212 Dominica
13214 Dominican Republic
13308 Grenada
13312 Guadeloupe
13332 Haiti
13388 Jamaica
13474 Martinique
13500 Montserrat
13531 Curaçao
13533 Aruba
13534 Sint Maarten (Dutch part)
13535 Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba
13630 Puerto Rico
13652 Saint Barthélemy
13659 Saint Kitts and Nevis
13660 Anguilla
13662 Saint Lucia
13663 Saint Martin (French part)
13670 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
13780 Trinidad and Tobago

--- PAGE 34 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
32
Code Country of birth
13796 Turks and Caicos Islands
13850 Virgin Islands, United States
14032 Argentina
14068 Bolivia
14076 Brazil
14152 Chile
14170 Colombia
14218 Ecuador
14238 Falkland Islands (Malvinas)
14239 South Georgia and the South Sandwich
Islands
14254 French Guiana
14328 Guyana
14600 Paraguay
14604 Peru
14740 Suriname
14858 Uruguay
14862 Venezuela
21040 Austria
21056 Belgium
21250 France
21276 Germany
21438 Liechtenstein
21442 Luxembourg
21492 Monaco
21528 Netherlands
21756 Switzerland
22100 Bulgaria
22112 Belarus
22203 Czechia
22233 Estonia
22348 Hungary
22428 Latvia
22440 Lithuania
22498 Moldova
22616 Poland
22642 Romania
22643 Russian Federation
22703 Slovakia
22804 Ukraine
23208 Denmark
23234 Faroe Islands

--- PAGE 35 ---
33
Code Country of birth
23246 Finland
23248 Åland Islands
23352 Iceland
23372 Ireland
23578 Norway
23680 Sark
23744 Svalbard and Jan Mayen
23752 Sweden
23826 United Kingdom
23831 Guernsey
23832 Jersey
23833 Isle of Man
24008 Albania
24020 Andorra
24070 Bosnia and Herzegovina
24191 Croatia
24292 Gibraltar
24300 Greece
24336 Holy See (Vatican City State)
24380 Italy
24470 Malta
24499 Montenegro
24620 Portugal
24674 San Marino
24688 Serbia
24705 Slovenia
24724 Spain
24807 Macedonia, Republic of
24983 Kosovo
31132 Cabo Verde
31204 Benin
31270 Gambia
31288 Ghana
31324 Guinea
31384 Côte d'Ivoire
31430 Liberia
31466 Mali
31478 Mauritania
31562 Niger
31566 Nigeria
31624 Guinea-Bissau

--- PAGE 36 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
34
Code Country of birth
31654 Saint Helena
31686 Senegal
31694 Sierra Leone
31768 Togo
31854 Burkina Faso
32108 Burundi
32174 Comoros
32175 Mayotte
32231 Ethiopia
32232 Eritrea
32262 Djibouti
32404 Kenya
32450 Madagascar
32454 Malawi
32480 Mauritius
32508 Mozambique
32638 Réunion
32646 Rwanda
32690 Seychelles
32706 Somalia
32716 Zimbabwe
32728 South Sudan
32800 Uganda
32834 Tanzania
32894 Zambia
33012 Algeria
33434 Libya
33504 Morocco
33729 Sudan
33732 Western Sahara
33788 Tunisia
33818 Egypt
34024 Angola
34120 Cameroon
34140 Central African Republic
34148 Chad
34178 Congo, Republic of the
34180 Congo, Democratic Republic of the
34226 Equatorial Guinea
34266 Gabon
34678 Sao Tome and Principe

--- PAGE 37 ---
35
Code Country of birth
35072 Botswana
35426 Lesotho
35516 Namibia
35710 South Africa, Republic of
35748 Swaziland
41004 Afghanistan
41031 Azerbaijan
41048 Bahrain
41051 Armenia
41196 Cyprus
41268 Georgia
41275 West Bank and Gaza Strip (Palestine)
41364 Iran
41368 Iraq
41376 Israel
41398 Kazakhstan
41400 Jordan
41414 Kuwait
41417 Kyrgyzstan
41422 Lebanon
41512 Oman
41634 Qatar
41682 Saudi Arabia
41760 Syria
41762 Tajikistan
41784 United Arab Emirates
41792 Turkey
41795 Turkmenistan
41860 Uzbekistan
41887 Yemen
42156 China
42158 Taiwan
42344 Hong Kong
42392 Japan
42408 Korea, North
42410 Korea, South
42446 Macao
42496 Mongolia
43096 Brunei Darussalam
43104 Burma (Myanmar)
43116 Cambodia

--- PAGE 38 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
36
Code Country of birth
43360 Indonesia
43418 Laos
43458 Malaysia
43608 Philippines
43626 Timor-Leste
43702 Singapore
43704 Viet Nam
43764 Thailand
44050 Bangladesh
44064 Bhutan
44086 British Indian Ocean Territory
44144 Sri Lanka
44356 India
44462 Maldives
44524 Nepal
44586 Pakistan
51016 American Samoa
51036 Australia
51090 Solomon Islands
51162 Christmas Island
51166 Cocos (Keeling) Islands
51184 Cook Islands
51242 Fiji
51258 French Polynesia
51296 Kiribati
51316 Guam
51520 Nauru
51540 New Caledonia
51548 Vanuatu
51554 New Zealand
51570 Niue
51574 Norfolk Island
51580 Northern Mariana Islands
51581 United States Minor Outlying Islands
51583 Micronesia, Federated States of
51584 Marshall Islands
51585 Palau
51598 Papua New Guinea
51612 Pitcairn
51772 Tokelau
51776 Tonga

--- PAGE 39 ---
37
Code Country of birth
51798 Tuvalu
51876 Wallis and Futuna
51882 Samoa
61010 Antarctica
61074 Bouvet Island
61260 French Southern Territories
61334 Heard Island and McDonald Islands
10000 Americas
10000 Amériques
11000 North America
11000 Amérique du Nord
12000 Central America
12000 Amérique centrale
13000 Caribbean and Bermuda
13000 Antilles et Bermudes
14000 South America
14000 Amérique du Sud
20000 Europe
20000 Europe
21000 Western Europe
21000 Europe de l'Ouest
22000 Eastern Europe
22000 Europe de l'Est
23000 Northern Europe
23000 Europe du Nord
24000 Southern Europe
24000 Europe du Sud
30000 Africa
30000 Afrique
31000 Western Africa
31000 Afrique de l'Ouest
32000 Eastern Africa
32000 Afrique de l'Est
33000 Northern Africa
33000 Afrique du Nord
34000 Central Africa
34000 Afrique centrale
35000 Southern Africa
35000 Afrique du Sud
40000 Asia
40000 Asie

--- PAGE 40 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
38
Code Country of birth
41000 West Central Asia and the Middle East
41000 Asie de l'Ouest et centrale et Moyen-Orient
42000 Eastern Asia
42000 Asie de l'Est
43000 Southeast Asia
43000 Asie du Sud-Est
44000 Southern Asia
44000 Asie du Sud
50000 Oceania
50000 Océanie
60000 Antarctica and Adjacent Islands
60000 Antarctique et îles adjacentes
80000 Born at sea
80000 Né(e) en mer
90000 Uncodable
90000 Non codable

--- PAGE 41 ---
39
Appendix D - Religion codes
RELIGION TEXT RELCODE
ABORIGINAL SPIRITUALITY 201000
ADVENTISTE DU SEPTIÈME JOUR 102010
ADVENTIST - SEVENTH-DAY 102010
SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTIST 102010
AGNOSTIC 301000
AHMADIYYA 105050
AMISH 102270
ANIMIST 201100
ANCESTOR WORSHIP 201100
ANGLICAN 102020
ANGLO-CATHOLIC 102020
ANTIOCHIAN ORTHODOX CHRISTIAN 103010
APOSTOLIC CHRISTIAN CHURCH 102030
ARMENIAN APOSTOLIC 103020
ARMENIAN CATHOLIC 101010
ARMENIAN ORTHODOX 103020
ASSOCIATED GOSPEL 102040
ATHEIST 302000
BAHA'I 105010
BAPTIST 102050
BLACKFOOT 201000
BRETHREN IN CHRIST 102060
BUDDHIST 105020
BULGARIAN ORTHODOX 103050
CANADIAN AND AMERICAN REFORMED
CHURCHES
102070
CANADIAN AND AMERICAN REFORMED
CHURCH
102070
CHALDEAN CATHOLIC 101010
CHARISMATIC RENEWAL 102080
CHRISTADELPHIAN 102090
CHRISTIAN AND MISSIONARY ALLIANCE 102100
CHRISTIAN CONGREGATION 102120
CHRISTIAN OR PLYMOUTH BRETHREN 102420
CHRISTIAN ORTHODOX 103050
CHRISTIAN REFORMED CHURCH 102140
CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY
SAINTS
102160
CHURCH OF SCOTLAND/SCOTTISH
PRESBYTERIAN
102430

--- PAGE 42 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
40
RELIGION TEXT RELCODE
CHURCH OF THE NAZARENE 102170
THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH (DISCIPLES OF
CHRIST)
102180
CHURCHES OF CHRIST DISCIPLES 102180
COPTIC ORTHODOX 103030
CREE 201000
COVENANT CHURCH 102430
DÉNÉ 201000
DOUKHOBOR 102037
DOUKHOBORS 102037
DRUID 206000
DRUZE 105050
DUTCH REFORMED CHURCH 102190
EASTERN RITE CATHOLIC 101010
ECKANKAR 105000
ETHIOPIAN ORTHODOX 103050
EVANGELICAL BAPTIST 102050
EVANGELICAL FREE CHURCH 102210
EVANGELICAL COVENANT CHURCH 102380
EVANGELICAL MISSIONARY CHURCH 102210
FOUR SQUARE GOSPEL CHURCH 102400
FOURTH WAY 209000
FREE METHODIST 102220
FREE REFORMED CHURCH 102070
FULL GOSPEL 102400
GERMAN LUTHERAN 102260
GLAD TIDINGS 102400
GNOSTIC 210000
GOSPEL HALL 102400
GRACE COMMUNION INTERNATIONAL 102550
GREEK ORTHODOX 103040
HINDU 105040
HUMANIST 304000
HUTTERITE 102230
IGLESIA NI CRISTO 102380
INTERDENOMINATIONAL CHRISTIAN 102240
INTERDENOMINATIONAL 102240
ISMALI 105050
JAINS 105060
JAINISM 105060
TÉMOIN DE JÉHOVAH 102250

--- PAGE 43 ---
41
RELIGION TEXT RELCODE
JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES 102250
JEHOVAH'S WITNESS 102250
JEWISH 104000
JEWISH ORTHODOX 104000
LAESTASDIAN LUTHERAN 102260
MORMON 102480
LATTER-DAY SAINTS (MORMONS) 102480
LONGHOUSE 201000
MACEDONIAN ORTHODOX 103050
MANITOU 201000
MAR THOMA SYRIAN CHURCH/MARTHOMITE 102380
MARONITE 101010
MELKITE 101010
MENNONITE 102270
MENNONITE BRETHEN 102270
MESSIANIC JEW/JEWISH CHRISTIAN 102380
METROPOLITAN COMMUNITY CHURCH 102380
MIDEWIN 201000
MISSION DE L'ESPRIT SAINT 102310
MORAVIAN CHURCH 102330
MORAVIAN 102330
NATIVE AMERICAN CHURCH 102380
NEW AGE 204000
NEW APOSTOLIC 102340
NO RELIGION 305000
NON-DENOMINATIONAL CHRISTIAN 102360
NON-DENOMINATIONAL 102360
PAGAN 206000
PENTECOSTAL 102400
POLISH NATIONAL CATHOLIC CHURCH 101020
PRESBYTERIAN 102430
QUAKER 102450
QUAKERS 102450
MOUVEMENT RASTAFARI 207000
RASTAFARIAN 207000
REFORMED PRESBYTERIAN 102430
REINLANDER MENNONITE 102270
REORGANIZED CHURCH OF LATTER-DAY
SAINTS
102480
REVIVAL CENTRE 102380
ROMAN CATHOLIC 101030

--- PAGE 44 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
42
RELIGION TEXT RELCODE
CATHOLIC 101030
CATHOLIQUE 101030
ROMANIAN ORTHODOX 103060
RUSSIAN ORTHODOX 103070
SALVATION ARMY 102490
SATANIST 208000
SCIENCE OF MIND/RELIGIOUS SCIENCE 201100
SCIENTOLOGY 209000
SERBIAN ORTHODOX 103080
SHAKER 102380
SHAMANISM 206000
SHI'A 105050
SHINTO 105080
SIKH 105090
SOMMERFELD MENNONITE 102270
SOUTHERN BAPTIST 102050
SPIRITUAL BAPTIST 102050
SPIRITUALIST 102500
STANDARD CHURCH 102510
SUNNI 105050
SWEDENBORGIAN (NEW CHURCH) 102350
SYRIAN CATHOLIC 101010
TAOIST 105100
UKRAINIAN CATHOLIC 101040
UKRAINIAN ORTHODOX 103090
UNITARIAN 102520
UNITED CHURCH 102530
UNITY - NEW THOUGHT - PANTHEIST 102510
VINEYARD CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 102380
WESLEYAN 102540
WICCA 206000
WORLDWIDE CHURCH OF GOD 102550
ZOROASTRIAN 105070
ANABAPTIST 102270
ANABAPTISTE 102270
ANABAPITIST 102270
APOSTOLIC 102380
BORN-AGAIN CHRISTIAN 102130
CHRÉTIENNE RÉGÉNÉRÉE 102130
CHURCH OF GOD 102150
EVANGELICAL 102380

--- PAGE 45 ---
43
RELIGION TEXT RELCODE
FREE CHURCH 102430
FUNDAMENTALIST 102380
GOSPEL 102400
GREEK OR BYZANTINE CATHOLIC 101010
EASTERN CATHOLIC 101010
EASTERN RELIGIONS 105000
LUTHERAN 102260
METHODIST 102280
MUSLIM 105050
REFORMED 102430
ORTHODOX 103000
PROTESTANT 102000
CHRISTIAN 102130
OTHER LANGUAGE - SPECIFY 900000
OTHER - SPECIFY 900000
SPIRITUALITÉ AUTOCHTONE 201000
ADVENTISTE 102010
AGNOSTIQUE 301000
AHMADIYYA 105050
AMISH 102270
ANIMIST 201100
CULTE D'ANCÊTRE 201100
ANGLICANE 102020
ANGLO-CATHOLIQUE 102020
CHRÉTIEN ORTHODOXE ANTIOCHIEN 103010
CHRÉTIENNE APOSTOLIQUE 102030
ARMÉNIENNE APOSTOLIQUE 103020
CATHOLIQUE ARMÉNIENNE 101010
ORTHODOXE ARMÉNIENNE 103020
ÉVANGILE DE L'UNION 102040
ATHÉE 302000
BAHA'I 105010
BAPTISTE 102050
PIEDS-NOIRS 201000
FRÈRES DANS LE CHRIST 102060
BOUDDHISTE 105020
ORTHODOXE BULGARE 103050
ÉGLISE RÉFORMÉE DU CANADA ET
D'AMÉRIQUE
102070
CATHOLIQUE CHALDÉENNE 101010
RENOUVEAU CHARISMATIQUE 102080

--- PAGE 46 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
44
RELIGION TEXT RELCODE
CHRISTADELPHE 102090
ALLIANCE CHRÉTIENNE ET MISSIONNAIRE 102100
CONGRÉGATION CHRÉTIENNE 102120
FRÈRES DE PLYMOUTH 102420
ORTHODOXE CHRÉTIENNE 103050
ÉGLISE CHRÉTIENNE RÉFORMÉE 102140
ÉGLISE DES SAINTS DES DERNIERS JOURS 102160
ÉGLISE DE L'ECOSSE/PRESBYTÉTIEN
ÉCOSSOIS
102430
ÉGLISE DU NAZARÉEN 102170
ÉGLISE DES DISCIPLES DU CHRIST 102180
ORTHODOXE COPTE 103030
CRI 201000
ÉGLISE COVENANT 102430
DÉNÉ 201000
DOUKHOBORS 102037
DRUIDE 206000
DRUZES 105050
ÉGLISE RÉFORMÉE HOLLANDAISE 102190
CATHOLIQUE RITE ORIENTAL 101010
ECKANKAR 105000
OTHER ORTHODOX 103050
ORTHODOXE ÉTHIOPIENNE 103050
BAPTISTE ÉVANGÉLIQUE 102050
ÉGLISE ÉVANGÉLIQUE LIBRE 102210
ÉGLISE COVENANT ÉVANGÉLIQUE 102380
ÉGLISE MISSIONNAIRE ÉVANGÉLIQUE 102210
ÉGLISE ÉVANGILE, FOUR SQUARE 102400
FOURTH WAY 209000
MÉTHODISTE LIBRE 102220
ÉGLISE LIBRE RÉFORMÉE 102070
FULL GOSPEL 102400
LUTHÉRIENNE ALLEMAND 102260
GLAD TIDINGS 102400
GNOSTIQUE 210000
SALLE D'ÉVANGILE 102400
COMMUNION DE GRACE INTERNATIONALE 102550
ORTHODOXE GRECQUE 103040
HINDOUE 105040
HUMANISTE 304000
HUTTÉRITE 102230

--- PAGE 47 ---
45
RELIGION TEXT RELCODE
IGLESIA NI CRISTO 102380
CHRÉTIEN INTERSECTAIRE 102240
INTERSECTAIRE 102240
ISMAÉLIENNE 105050
DJAÏN 105060
TÉMOINS DE JÉHOVAH 102250
JUIVE 104000
ORTHODOXE JUIVE 104000
LUTHÉRIENNE LAESTADIAN 102260
SAINTS DES DERNIERS JOURS (MORMONE) 102480
LONGUE MAISON 201000
ORTHODOXE MACÉDONIENNE 103050
MANITOU 201000
ÉGLISE SYRIENNE MAR THOMA/MARTHOMITE 102380
MARONITE 101010
MELKITE 101010
MENNONITE 102270
FRÈRES DANS LE MENNONITE 102270
JUIF DE MESSIE/CHRÉTIEN JUIF 102380
ÉGLISE METROPOLITAINE DE LA
COMMUNAUTÉ
102380
MIDEWIN 201000
MISSION DE L'ESPRIT SAINT 102310
MORAVE 102330
ÉGLISE AUTOCHTONE 102380
NOUVEL ÂGE 204000
APOSTOLIQUE NOUVELLE 102340
AUCUNE RELIGION 305000
NON SECTAIRE 102360
PAÏENNE 206000
PENTECÔTISTE 102400
ÉGLISE CATHOLIQUE NATIONALE POLONAISE 101020
PRESBYTÉRIENNE 102430
QUAKERS 102450
RASTAFARISME 207000
PRESBYTÉRIENNE RÉFORMÉE 102430
MENNONITE REINLANDER 102270
ÉGLISE RÉORGANISÉE DES SAINTS DES
DERNIERS JOURS
102480
CENTRE DE RENAISSANCE 102380
CATHOLIQUE ROMAINE 101030
ORTHODOXE ROUMAINE 103060

--- PAGE 48 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
46
RELIGION TEXT RELCODE
ORTHODOXE RUSSE 103070
ARMÉE DU SALUT 102490
SATANISM 208000
SATANISME 208000
LA SCIENCE DE L'ESPRIT/LA SCIENCE
RELIGIEUSE
201100
LA SCIENCE DE L'ESPRIT/LA SCIENCE
RELIGIEUSE
201100
SCIENTOLOGIE 209000
ORTHODOXE SERBE 103080
SHAKER 102380
CHAMANISME 206000
CHIITE 105050
SHINTOÏSTE 105080
SIKH 105090
MENNONITE SOMMERFELD 102270
BAPTISTE MÉRIDIONAL 102050
BAPTISTE SPIRTUEL 102050
SPIRITUALISTE 102500
STANDARD CHURCH 102510
SUNNITE 105050
SWEDENBORGIAN (ÉGLISE NOUVELLE) 102350
CATHOLIQUE SYRIENNE 101010
TAÔISTE 105100
CATHOLIQUE UKRAINIENNE 101040
ORTHODOXE UKRAINIENNE 103090
UNITARIENNE 102520
ÉGLISE UNIE 102530
UNITÉ - NOUVELLE PENSÉE - PANTHÉISTE 102510
VINEYARD CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 102380
WESLEYENNE 102540
WICCA 206000
WORLDWIDE CHURCH OF GOD 102550
ZOROASTRIENNE 105070
ANABAPITISTE 102270
APOSTOLIQUE 102380
CHRÉTIENNE, RÉGÉNÉRÉE 102130
ÉGLISE DE DIEU 102150
ÉVANGÉLIQUE 102380
ÉGLISE LIBRE 102430
ÉXTREMINSTE 102380
ÉVANGILE 102400

--- PAGE 49 ---
47
RELIGION TEXT RELCODE
CATHOLIQUE GRECQUE OU BYZANTINE 101010
CATHOLIQUE ORIENTALE 101010
RELIGION ORIENTALES 105000
LUTHÉRIENNE 102260
MÉTHODISTE 102280
MUSULMANE 105050
RÉFORMÉE 102430
ORTHODOXE 103000
PROTESTANTE 102000
CHRÉTIENNE 102130
AUTRE LANGUE - PRÉCISEZ 900000
AUTRE - PRÉCISEZ 900000
JEDI 900000
FREE THINKER 900000
AUTRE CATHOLIQUE 101010
OTHER CATHOLIC 101010

--- PAGE 50 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
48
Appendix E - Language codes
LANGUAGE TEXT LANGCODE
English 21010000
French 21020000
Aboriginal languages 22010000
Algonquian languages 22010100
Algonquin 22010101
Atikamekw 22010102
Blackfoot 22010103
Cree 22010104
Malecite 22010105
Mi'kmaq 22010106
Montagnais-naskapi 22010107
Ojibway 22010108
Oji-cree 22010109
Athapaskan languages 22010200
Carrier 22010201
Chilcotin 22010202
Chipewyan 22010203
Dene 22010204
Dogrib 22010205
Kutchin-gwich'in (loucheux) 22010206
North slave (hare) 22010207
South slave 22010208
Haida 22010300
Iroquoian languages 22010400
Mohawk 22010401
Kutenai 22010500
Salish languages 22010600
Shuswap 22010601
Thompson (ntlakapamux) 22010602
Siouan languages
(dakota/sioux)
22010700
Tlingit 22010800
Tsimshian languages 22010900
Gitksan 22010901
Nisga'a 22010902
Tsimshian 22010903
Wakashan languages 22011000
Nootka 22011001
Inuktitut 22011100
Inuinnaqtun 22011101

--- PAGE 51 ---
49
LANGUAGE TEXT LANGCODE
Romance languages 22020000
Italian 22020100
Portuguese 22020200
Romanian 22020300
Spanish 22020400
Germanic languages 22030000
Dutch 22030100
Flemish 22030200
Frisian 22030300
German 22030400
Yiddish 22030500
Scandinavian languages 22030600
Danish 22030601
Icelandic 22030602
Norwegian 22030603
Swedish 22030604
Celtic languages 22040000
Gaelic languages 22040100
Welsh 22040200
Slavic languages 22050000
Belarusan (byelorussian) 22050100
Bosnian 22050200
Bulgarian 22050300
Croatian 22050400
Czech 22050500
Macedonian 22050600
Polish 22050700
Russian 22050800
Serbian 22050900
Serbo-croatian 22051000
Slovak 22051100
Slovenian 22051200
Ukrainian 22051300
Baltic languages 22060000
Latvian 22060100
Lithuanian 22060200
Finno-ugric languages 22070000
Estonian 22070100
Finnish 22070200
Hungarian 22070300
Greek 22080000

--- PAGE 52 ---
User Guide 2018 GSS - Cycle 32- Caregiving and Care Receiving
50
LANGUAGE TEXT LANGCODE
Armenian 22090000
Turkic languages 22100000
Azerbaijani 22100100
Turkish 22100200
Afro-asiatic languages 22110000
Berber languages (kabyle) 22110100
Cushitic languages 22110200
Oromo 22110201
Somali 22110202
Semitic languages 22110300
Amharic 22110301
Arabic 22110302
Hebrew 22110303
Maltese 22110304
Tigrigna 22110305
Indo-iranian languages 22120000
Indo-aryan languages 22120100
Bengali 22120101
Gujarati 22120102
Hindi 22120103
Konkani 22120104
Marathi 22120105
Panjabi (punjabi) 22120106
Sindhi 22120107
Sinhala (sinhalese) 22120108
Urdu 22120109
Iranian languages 22120200
Kurdish 22120201
Pashto 22120202
Persian (farsi) 22120203
Dravidian languages 22130000
Kannada 22130100
Malayalam 22130200
Tamil 22130300
Telugu 22130400
Japanese 22140000
Korean 22150000
Sino-tibetan languages 22160000
Chinese languages 22160100
Cantonese 22160101
Chaochow (teochow) 22160102

--- PAGE 53 ---
51
LANGUAGE TEXT LANGCODE
Fukien 22160103
Hakka 22160104
Mandarin 22160105
Shanghainese 22160106
Taiwanese 22160107
Tibetan languages 22160200
Tai languages 22170000
Lao 22170100
Thai 22170200
Austro-asiatic languages 22180000
Khmer (cambodian) 22180100
Vietnamese 22180200
Malayo-polynesian languages 22190000
Bisayan languages 22190100
Ilocano 22190200
Malay 22190300
Pampango 22190400
Tagalog (pilipino, filipino) 22190500
Niger-congo languages 22200000
Akan (twi) 22200100
Bantu languages 22200200
Lingala 22200201
Rundi (kirundi) 22200202
Rwanda (kinyarwanda) 22200203
Shona 22200204
Swahili 22200205
Edo 22200300
Igbo 22200400
Wolof 22200500
Creoles 22220000
Non-verbal languages 22230000
American sign language 22230100
Quebec sign language 22230200
Sign languages 22230300
Other language - Specify 22240000
